README.md, before:

# waxak ( 8 - 𝋨 )

k8 bootstrap (kubeadm)

# TODO

## Node prep
- [x] sshd - Disable passwordauth
- [x] kube user
  - [x] Create kube user
  - [x] Add kube user to appropriate groups(sudo, wheel)
  - [x] Create ssh pair key for kube user
  - [x] Add ssh pub key to authorized keys for kube user
  - [x] Fetch priv key and stores under `~/kube_keys/<fqdn>/<key_name>`


## K8 prep
- [ ] Install/config container runtime
  - [ ] docker.io
    - [ ] exec-opts
      /etc/docker/daemon.json
      ```
      {            
       "exec-opts": ["native.cgroupdriver=systemd"]
      } 
      ```
  - [ ] cri-o ?

- [ ] Import kubernetes gpg keys
  - [ ] apt.kubernetes.io/doc/apt-key.gpg
  - [ ] yum ?

- [ ] Enable repo
  - [ ] https://apt.kubernetes.io
  - [ ] yum ?

- [ ] Install packages
  - [ ] kubelet
  - [ ] kubeadm
  - [ ] kubectl

### Master
- [ ] init masternode
- [ ] copy kube configs to kube user
  ```
  mkdir -p $HOME/.kube
  sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf $HOME/.kube/config
  sudo chown $(id -u):$(id -g) $HOME/.kube/config
  ```
- [ ] add completions to ~/.bashrc
  - [ ] echo 'source <(kubectl completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc
  - [ ] echo 'source <(kubeadm completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc
- [ ] Install a SDN
  - [ ] flannel 
    ```
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/flannel/master/Documentation/kube-flannel.yml
    ```
  - [ ] calico 
    ```
    kubectl apply -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.2/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/hosted/etcd.yaml
    kubectl apply -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.2/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/rbac.yaml
    kubectl apply -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.2/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/hosted/calico.yaml
    ```

### Nodes
  - [ ] Join node to master
    ```
    kubeadm join w.x.y.z:6443 --token 123456.1234567890 --discovery-token-ca-cert-hash sha256:01234567890abcd..
    ```


## Envs
- [ ] Create users for contexts
- [ ] Create contexts

## Tear Down
- [ ] Backup etcd (?)
- [ ] Remove nodes from the cluster

## References

- Maya Glyphs http://www.famsi.org/research/pitts/MayaGlyphsBook2.pdf

Commit message:

Add missing tasks for kube user.

README.md, after:

# waxak ( 8 - 𝋨 )

k8 bootstrap (kubeadm)

# TODO

## Node prep
- [x] sshd - Disable passwordauth
- [x] kube user
  - [x] Create kube user
  - [x] Add kube user to appropriate groups(sudo, wheel)
  - [x] Create ssh pair key for kube user
  - [x] Add ssh pub key to authorized keys for kube user
  - [x] Fetch priv key and stores under `~/kube_keys/<fqdn>/<key_name>`
  - Either
    - [ ] Create random password for kube user and store it somewhere
    - [ ] Create sudo entry for `NOPASSWD`


## K8 prep
- [ ] Install/config container runtime
  - [ ] docker.io
    - [ ] exec-opts
      /etc/docker/daemon.json
      ```
      {            
       "exec-opts": ["native.cgroupdriver=systemd"]
      } 
      ```
  - [ ] cri-o ?

- [ ] Import kubernetes gpg keys
  - [ ] apt.kubernetes.io/doc/apt-key.gpg
  - [ ] yum ?

- [ ] Enable repo
  - [ ] https://apt.kubernetes.io
  - [ ] yum ?

- [ ] Install packages
  - [ ] kubelet
  - [ ] kubeadm
  - [ ] kubectl

### Master
- [ ] init masternode
- [ ] copy kube configs to kube user
  ```
  mkdir -p $HOME/.kube
  sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf $HOME/.kube/config
  sudo chown $(id -u):$(id -g) $HOME/.kube/config
  ```
- [ ] add completions to ~/.bashrc
  - [ ] echo 'source <(kubectl completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc
  - [ ] echo 'source <(kubeadm completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc
- [ ] Install a SDN
  - [ ] flannel 
    ```
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/flannel/master/Documentation/kube-flannel.yml
    ```
  - [ ] calico 
    ```
    kubectl apply -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.2/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/hosted/etcd.yaml
    kubectl apply -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.2/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/rbac.yaml
    kubectl apply -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.2/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/hosted/calico.yaml
    ```

### Nodes
  - [ ] Join node to master
    ```
    kubeadm join w.x.y.z:6443 --token 123456.1234567890 --discovery-token-ca-cert-hash sha256:01234567890abcd..
    ```


## Envs
- [ ] Create users for contexts
- [ ] Create contexts

## Tear Down
- [ ] Backup etcd (?)
- [ ] Remove nodes from the cluster

## References

- Maya Glyphs http://www.famsi.org/research/pitts/MayaGlyphsBook2.pdf
